README.md, before:

# ⚠️ AI-GENERATED CONTENT DISCLAIMER ⚠️

> 🤖 **IMPORTANT**: This project was generated using artificial intelligence (specifically Claude 3.5 Sonnet) and should NOT be considered as official Salesforce guidelines or best practices. It is an experimental project exploring the capabilities of generative AI in creating development guidelines.
>
> 🧪 **Experimental**: The rules, practices, and configurations presented here are AI-generated interpretations and may not reflect current Salesforce standards or requirements. Always refer to [official Salesforce documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/) for authoritative guidance.
>
> 📚 **Learning Resource**: This repository serves as an example of how AI can be used to generate development guidelines and should be used for educational and experimental purposes only.

---

# Salesforce AppExchange Development - Cursor Rules

![Salesforce](https://img.shields.io/badge/Salesforce-00A1E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=salesforce&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge)

A comprehensive set of Cursor IDE rules for **Salesforce AppExchange development** following industry best practices. These rules enforce source-driven development, Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP), and modern Salesforce DX patterns.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Rule Categories](#rule-categories)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Rule Details](#rule-details)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support](#support)
- [License](#license)

## 🔍 Overview

This repository contains **Cursor IDE rules** designed to ensure high-quality, AppExchange-ready Salesforce applications. The rules enforce:

- **Source-driven development** with Git as the single source of truth
- **Salesforce DX tooling** and CLI-first operations
- **Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP)** best practices
- **Modular architecture** patterns
- **Security and quality standards** for packaged applications

### 🎯 Target Audience

- **ISV developers** building applications for Salesforce AppExchange
- **Salesforce architects** designing enterprise solutions
- **Development teams** adopting modern Salesforce DX practices
- **Partner organizations** following Salesforce packaging standards

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Clone this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules.git
   ```

2. **Copy rules to your Cursor workspace**
   ```bash
   cp .cursorrules your-salesforce-project/
   ```

3. **Start developing** with automatic rule enforcement in Cursor IDE

## 📚 Rule Categories

### 🤖 AgentExchange Development
Rules for building and packaging **AI Agents** for Agentforce and AgentExchange distribution.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Agent Template generation and packaging
- Agentforce-enabled scratch org configuration
- Proper metadata handling for Bot and BotVersion components

### ⚡ Apex Best Practices
Guidelines for writing **high-quality, secure, and packageable** Apex code.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Minimum 75% test coverage requirements
- Proper use of `@namespaceAccessible` annotations
- Intellectual property protection patterns
- Post-installation logic implementation

### 📦 Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP)
Comprehensive best practices for **modern Salesforce packaging**.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- CLI-first packaging operations
- Modular package architecture
- Namespace strategy and management
- Semantic versioning and upgrade paths

### 🔧 Scratch Org Configuration
Guidelines for creating **consistent development environments**.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Feature and settings configuration
- Org shape capture and replication
- Environment-specific requirements (Agentforce, Experience Cloud, Data Cloud)

### ⚙️ Project Configuration
Best practices for **sfdx-project.json** configuration in modular applications.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Package directory structure
- Dependency management
- API version pinning
- Post-install script configuration

## 📥 Installation

Download the `.cursorrules` file and place it in your Salesforce DX project root.





## 📖 Rule Details

### 🏗️ Development Principles

All rules enforce these core principles:

1. **Source-Driven Development**: Git is the single source of truth, not the org
2. **Salesforce DX Tooling**: All operations use Salesforce CLI
3. **Scratch Org Strategy**: Temporary, disposable development environments
4. **Dev Hub Management**: Centralized package and org management

### 🔒 Security & Quality Standards

- **Code Obfuscation**: Managed package IP protection
- **API Design**: Minimal global exposure, namespace-accessible patterns  
- **Test Coverage**: Comprehensive testing requirements
- **Dependency Management**: Declarative package dependencies

### 🚀 Packaging Strategy

- **Modular Architecture**: Small, focused, interdependent packages
- **Shared Namespace**: Efficient code sharing across packages
- **Semantic Versioning**: `major.minor.patch.build` format with `NEXT` keyword
- **Ancestor Tracking**: `HIGHEST` keyword for upgrade path management

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Create Scratch Org] --> B[Develop in Scratch Org]
    B --> C[Retrieve Metadata]
    C --> D[Commit to Git]
    D --> E[Create Package Version]
    E --> F[Test in Fresh Scratch Org]
    F --> G[Promote to Released]
    G --> H[Distribute on AppExchange]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these guidelines:

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-rule`)
3. **Test** your rules in a real Salesforce project
4. **Commit** with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Add: New packaging rule for XYZ'`)
5. **Push** to your branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-rule`)
6. **Open** a Pull Request

### 📝 Contribution Guidelines

- Rules must be based on **official Salesforce documentation**
- Include **citations** and references where applicable
- Test rules with **real-world scenarios**
- Follow **existing formatting patterns**
- Update documentation for **new rule categories**

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules/discussions)
- **Salesforce Community**: [Trailblazer Community](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/trailblazer-community)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **Apache License 2.0** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Salesforce Developer Relations** for comprehensive DX documentation
- **Salesforce Partner Community** for real-world packaging insights
- **Cursor IDE Team** for powerful rule-based development features

---

**Made with ❤️ by the Salesforce Developer Community**

*For the latest Salesforce development best practices, visit the [Salesforce Developer Documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/)*

Commit message:

docs: Add YouTube tutorial reference
- Add section about the tutorial video
- Include clickable YouTube badge
- Link to 'Supercharge Salesforce Development for ISV with Cursor AI & Gemini' video

README.md, after:

# ⚠️ AI-GENERATED CONTENT DISCLAIMER ⚠️

> 🤖 **IMPORTANT**: This project was generated using artificial intelligence (specifically Claude 3.5 Sonnet) and should NOT be considered as official Salesforce guidelines or best practices. It is an experimental project exploring the capabilities of generative AI in creating development guidelines.
>
> 🧪 **Experimental**: The rules, practices, and configurations presented here are AI-generated interpretations and may not reflect current Salesforce standards or requirements. Always refer to [official Salesforce documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/) for authoritative guidance.
>
> 📚 **Learning Resource**: This repository serves as an example of how AI can be used to generate development guidelines and should be used for educational and experimental purposes only.

## 📺 Featured in YouTube Tutorial

This set of rules was created as part of the YouTube tutorial ["Supercharge Salesforce Development for ISV with Cursor AI & Gemini"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBCEcbFH8Po). Watch the video to learn how these rules were generated and how to leverage AI tools to enhance your Salesforce development workflow.

[![Watch the Tutorial](https://img.shields.io/badge/Watch%20Tutorial-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBCEcbFH8Po)

---

# Salesforce AppExchange Development - Cursor Rules

![Salesforce](https://img.shields.io/badge/Salesforce-00A1E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=salesforce&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge)

A comprehensive set of Cursor IDE rules for **Salesforce AppExchange development** following industry best practices. These rules enforce source-driven development, Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP), and modern Salesforce DX patterns.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Rule Categories](#rule-categories)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Rule Details](#rule-details)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support](#support)
- [License](#license)

## 🔍 Overview

This repository contains **Cursor IDE rules** designed to ensure high-quality, AppExchange-ready Salesforce applications. The rules enforce:

- **Source-driven development** with Git as the single source of truth
- **Salesforce DX tooling** and CLI-first operations
- **Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP)** best practices
- **Modular architecture** patterns
- **Security and quality standards** for packaged applications

### 🎯 Target Audience

- **ISV developers** building applications for Salesforce AppExchange
- **Salesforce architects** designing enterprise solutions
- **Development teams** adopting modern Salesforce DX practices
- **Partner organizations** following Salesforce packaging standards

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Clone this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules.git
   ```

2. **Copy rules to your Cursor workspace**
   ```bash
   cp .cursorrules your-salesforce-project/
   ```

3. **Start developing** with automatic rule enforcement in Cursor IDE

## 📚 Rule Categories

### 🤖 AgentExchange Development
Rules for building and packaging **AI Agents** for Agentforce and AgentExchange distribution.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Agent Template generation and packaging
- Agentforce-enabled scratch org configuration
- Proper metadata handling for Bot and BotVersion components

### ⚡ Apex Best Practices
Guidelines for writing **high-quality, secure, and packageable** Apex code.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Minimum 75% test coverage requirements
- Proper use of `@namespaceAccessible` annotations
- Intellectual property protection patterns
- Post-installation logic implementation

### 📦 Second-Generation Managed Packaging (2GP)
Comprehensive best practices for **modern Salesforce packaging**.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- CLI-first packaging operations
- Modular package architecture
- Namespace strategy and management
- Semantic versioning and upgrade paths

### 🔧 Scratch Org Configuration
Guidelines for creating **consistent development environments**.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Feature and settings configuration
- Org shape capture and replication
- Environment-specific requirements (Agentforce, Experience Cloud, Data Cloud)

### ⚙️ Project Configuration
Best practices for **sfdx-project.json** configuration in modular applications.

**Key Focus Areas:**
- Package directory structure
- Dependency management
- API version pinning
- Post-install script configuration

## 📥 Installation

Download the `.cursorrules` file and place it in your Salesforce DX project root.





## 📖 Rule Details

### 🏗️ Development Principles

All rules enforce these core principles:

1. **Source-Driven Development**: Git is the single source of truth, not the org
2. **Salesforce DX Tooling**: All operations use Salesforce CLI
3. **Scratch Org Strategy**: Temporary, disposable development environments
4. **Dev Hub Management**: Centralized package and org management

### 🔒 Security & Quality Standards

- **Code Obfuscation**: Managed package IP protection
- **API Design**: Minimal global exposure, namespace-accessible patterns  
- **Test Coverage**: Comprehensive testing requirements
- **Dependency Management**: Declarative package dependencies

### 🚀 Packaging Strategy

- **Modular Architecture**: Small, focused, interdependent packages
- **Shared Namespace**: Efficient code sharing across packages
- **Semantic Versioning**: `major.minor.patch.build` format with `NEXT` keyword
- **Ancestor Tracking**: `HIGHEST` keyword for upgrade path management

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Create Scratch Org] --> B[Develop in Scratch Org]
    B --> C[Retrieve Metadata]
    C --> D[Commit to Git]
    D --> E[Create Package Version]
    E --> F[Test in Fresh Scratch Org]
    F --> G[Promote to Released]
    G --> H[Distribute on AppExchange]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these guidelines:

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-rule`)
3. **Test** your rules in a real Salesforce project
4. **Commit** with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Add: New packaging rule for XYZ'`)
5. **Push** to your branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-rule`)
6. **Open** a Pull Request

### 📝 Contribution Guidelines

- Rules must be based on **official Salesforce documentation**
- Include **citations** and references where applicable
- Test rules with **real-world scenarios**
- Follow **existing formatting patterns**
- Update documentation for **new rule categories**

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/your-org/cursor-salesforce-rules/discussions)
- **Salesforce Community**: [Trailblazer Community](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/trailblazer-community)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **Apache License 2.0** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Salesforce Developer Relations** for comprehensive DX documentation
- **Salesforce Partner Community** for real-world packaging insights
- **Cursor IDE Team** for powerful rule-based development features

---

**Made with ❤️ by the Salesforce Developer Community**

*For the latest Salesforce development best practices, visit the [Salesforce Developer Documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/)*
